# Writen analysis of the results.

## Overview of the project:

For this project I was asked to help Louise analyze data that will be helpful for her. Louise is an up-and-coming script writer and is interested in gathering information on past successful fundraisers for plays such as the one she wants to make. I was provided with an excel that contained a lot of information about past and present fundraisers. Using this information, I was able to create different graphs and tables to help Louise reach conclusions and make the best decisions for her play. Developing this project helped me develop my excel skills and have more knowledge on how to analyze information which was also part of the porpoise of this project.

## Analysis and challenges:

A lot of information was analyzed throughout this project to help Louise make better decisions to maximize her chances of creating a successful play. Some of the analysis was surprising such as the outcomes based on launch dates. Using the information form the whole table and creating a pivot table I was able to create a line graph to visualize when the best month is to launch a theater play. The results say that May is the most successful month for this category so for Louis to maximize her chances of having a successful play she may launch her play in May. Other interesting results show that the best goal range for plays is between 0 to 5000 dollars and 35000 to 45000 dollars. Plays that had a fundraiser goal between both of this ranges had more than a 60% success rate. Louis might also be interested in these results to lower her budget from 10,000 to 5,000 dollars. This analysis will help Louis maximize her chances of being successful.

All the analysis was made through pivot tables, charts, and formulas on excel. The theater outcome by launch date was made using a pivot table and afterwards creating a line graph using the information from the pivot table giving us visual data which is easier to understand. It is easier to reach conclusions with visuals since it helps us understand the data. The outcomes based by goals was made using the excel formula of countifs. A table with information was made with this formula and a line graph was created with this data. Both analyses are easy to understand because of the graphs and it will help Louis make better decisions. 

Throughout the creation of this project, I encountered some challenges which I was able to overcome to complete the project and help Louis. There were two principal challenges that I faced, first it was using the countifs formula and the other was creating the pivot table as it was asked. The countifs formula was confusing since I had never used it before. I had to look at some videos to understand how to use it and analyze the information correctly. It took me some time to do it correctly but at the end I was able to complete the analysis. The pivot table was also challenging since I could not arrange the information as I was asked for at first. But after some time playing with the information and moving it around, I was able to organize the information and collect the right data. 

## Results:

### What are two conclusions you can draw about the Theater Outcomes by Launch Date?
With the information gathered in the Theater Outcomes by Launch Date I can reach the following conclusions. Firstly, the theater season or the months where more people go watch a play is around May and June. This might be because people have more free time during summer or because more plays are available during this period. I would recommend Louis to launch her play around May and June. The second conclusion that I reached was that people don’t really go to the theater in December. The total amount of plays are the lowest around the months of November and December and also the percentage of successful plays during these months is very low. I would not recommend Louise to launch her play during this time of the year. 
What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
With the information gathered from the Outcomes based on Goals is that the most successful plays are the ones with the lowest budget. The chances of having a successful play with a maximum budget of 4999 dollars is around 74%. The next best success percentage is with a budget of 35000 to 44999 dollars with a success percentage of 67%. With these results I would highly recommend Louise to lower her budget to maximize her chances of having a successful fundraiser for her play. 
### What are some limitations of this dataset?
One of the biggest limitations that I can see in this dataset is that the most recent date is from the year 2017. This was 5 years ago and this numbers might not be as accurate anymore. We would need to find more recent date to have mor accurate information for Louise. Another limitation might be the income of each project in the dataset. The current information only tells us if the fundraiser was successful, but it would also be useful to know how those projects are doing right now. With the income we could have a wider idea of how successful a play might be. 
What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
Another possible graph that would be helpful would be a line graph or bar graph which indicates which year had the most successful plays. With this graph it would become easy to determine whether the theater is gaining popularity with the years or if it is losing popularity within the years. Another useful graph would be a bar graph comparing the results of other competing industries such as TV or films to see how the theater industry is doing compared to its competitors. With both graphs we could have a visual representation of the theater trends.
